>> EVERYBY'S UGHING BECAU
YOU KN EXACT WHAT M
TALKINABOUT,ON'T YOU?
SE ALL M FENDS A
COEAGUESERE.
WANT TO THANKOU ALL FOR
ININGEHERE TODAY.
I WA TO THK YOU R HAVI
ON TH HALL.
CAN'T LP BUT TNK BACK T
THIS PIVOL TIM IN MY FE.
WAS T SUMERF2012.
I WAABOUTTOPE AT A LOCAL
CHAMBEOF CMERCEROUPHEN I
GOT TSHONE LL, RIGHUP
ERE IN READI ROOM.
THEHONE CALL W FRO BETH
MYER FROM TOMNEY CAAIGN.
AND  THIS INT, YOU OW, I
KN THAT WAS BEING VETTE FOR
VI PRESINT, BU IADN'T
HEARD ANYTING.
I DIDN KNOW W SEROUS THIS
WA
I DN'T TNK THED PICK GUY
FROM THE HOUSANYWAY
SOETH START T WA ME
ROUGH W IOULD ND TO Y
TO BOSN INGNITO.
SHE GOE THRGH ALLHESE
GISTICOF WHAT  ABOUT TO
OCCU
ANITUST START OCCURNG TO
ME TT MYLIFEYFALY'S
LIFEIS ABO TO CHGE
DRAMATALLY.
AN THAT CALL WAS RHT OUTDE
THAT DR THER
WE HA UP, I GO UP TOHE
ADING OM ANDIVEHAT
SPEECHAND TNEALIZE'VE
GOT TOO VOTE O T FLR.
SOHIS VY MOMEN I WK
RIGHINTO A SWARM OF COLAGUES
AND PORTER JUST KPING MUM.
IT'S ONEF THOSE ILECTIO
POTS YOU REMBER AT CTAIN
OSSRDS IN YOUR LI.
THIS BUILNG,HAT MONT.
REMIND ME RHT N TT
UR PLAN, YR DIRECON CAN
CHANGEN AN INSTAN
I'VE HAD A NBER O IMPRABLE
TURNINY LIFE
I N'T KNHAT'S NEXT.
T BEFO GO A GRAFUL
TO HE TE CHAE TO SHARE
FEW THOHTS AND TO SAY GOODE.
I'M GRATEL TO SAY GODBYE T
YOU, TO THIS B, ANO TS
INCRIBLENSTITUON W CLL
THEOUSEF REPRENTATIVES.
LONG TE GO, ICAME HEO
CATOL HI AS AN IERN FO
E SEMESTER ICOLLEG
E PL WAS PRETSIMP.
ONE SESTER HER ISHINGT,
LEARSOMEING, THAT' .
SINCE THEN, I HE BEEN
SURRNDED BOME INEDIBLE
OPLE.
THE MENTOHO HELPESETE N
THE GHT TH -- CK KEM
LL BENNT, B ODSO --
ACTU GIANTWHO GUIDE M I
INGS IANTED TO PURSUE THE
PEOPLEF STHERNISCOIN WHO
GAVE M T CHANCOORK FOR
THEM THE STA WHO ALWA MADE
ME BETTR,HE PSIDENT A T
VICERESIDE FOR BNG MY
PARTNE IN VERNMENT, THE
COEAGUESHO BAME LIFONG
FRNDS, A OF COUR, MY
FAMI.
IS WHO THINGTARTED AS A
FAMI FAIR.
MY MOM MY BROERTOBIY
SIER-ILAW, TY RAN  FIRST
CAAIGN.
MYOM WASY SCHELER, ANDSO
NONE WOU TURN WN YROM
WHENHE CALLS T ASK YOU TO GO
EAK TOHEIRGROU
ITAS A GREA SET.
I WOD NO BEABL TO SER AS
SPEAKEIF ITER N FHE
SAIFICESHAT NA, LIZA
CHARLAAND SMYDE.
BEING  HUSBD A DAD IS
EVERHING TOME.
WE'VE COME A LONAY
TOGEER IN THIS IMPROBLE
JOURY.
SO FROTHEOTTOMF MYART,
THK YOU
THK YOALL
[ APAUSE
OV THEARS EECIAY
LALY, I' ALWSHOUG
OUT TH.
VE BN THINKG TO MYSF
WHETHEMY DAD WOULDE PROUOF
ME.
WOD HE B PUD O WHAT I'M
DOIN WHAI DID?
IOST HIMT AOUNG AGE
FORE H RELY HD A CHAE TO
SHAPE  PATH IN IFE.
I DOT KNOWHAT  THOUGHT I
WOD MAKEF MYSELF
I WATOO YOUNG.
BUT ISAS CERTALY T M
PL.
NOT EV CLSE.
ALL KEEP TNKING IS EVERY
TI I GO BACK TO THIIS WHAT
UNTRY.
I ME, WHA A COUNY.
WHE SOMEE OF A UNSUMING
MIEST UPBNGING GTS T
ANCE T B ART OF AL OF
IS.
WHAT A COUNTR
U CAN PSUEWHATEVER YOUR
PASSIOIS, WHEEVER I TAKES
U.
AN THAT TE AMERIN
ID, ISN'IT?
THE COITION YR BIH
ISN'YOURSTINY.
UR SUGGLE ISN'T YOUR
DESTIN
IT PART  YOURURNEY.
YOU OW, IT ALL LD OUT
RIGHT ERE INHE FIR WORDS
OFHE CONSTUTION
BERE FST PRIIPLESEV.
AIRSTISSION TO AIEVE A
MOREERFECT UNIO
WERE CONDIONED T RECOGZE
THAT WE A PERFEC
WE ARE CALDO DOTTER.
SOE REVER THE BUTIFUL
FOUNNG PRIIPLES, BERTY,
FR ENTERISE,ONSENTF T
GOVERN, AND EN WEGO TOORK
TO APP THEM  THE PBLEMS
THDAY.
AND  BLDP THE CNTRY'S
FUAMENTARESILICE, THE
ANBODIESHAT PROCTS FROM
WHATEV IS GOG TO CE O
WAY.
THAT'S HOWE CAN VANCE THE
AMERAN IDE.
TH'S HOW W BLD A MORE
CONFENT AMERI.
AS A MY COLAGUES RE KN,
I NEVE WANED TO BECOME
SPKER.
I WAS ST AOLICY Y.
I LIKE TO THII STIL AM.
BUWHAT I RLIZE NOW IS YOU
DOTEALL BECOM EAKER.
AT LEAST DON'TEETHAT
Y.
I N'T E POWESOMETHI
UAKE FOR URSELF
IS ANWESOME THIN
AGAIN, JUSRECENT, E PEOE
HAVE SPOK, AND SO, TOUSE
WI BECOM E CAREF A NE
MARITYN WHA INOW LL B
A SRITEDONEYMIRITY.
I WISH THE NXT LEADELL.
BUT IT IS PRECILY BECSE TS
IS S MONTARY, IT'S BAUSE
U AREERE FORUST SMALL
PARTF HISTO THT YO A
SPIRED TO  BIG THINGS
AND ON THIS CORE, WE HAVE
ACHIEV A GAT DEA
WE HAVMUCH T BE PROUDOF.
THE YEARAGO,EEGANA
GRT JOUEY TO SET OURATION
ON AETTER TH.
TO MOVOURCONOMYROM
STAGNATI TO GROW, TO RESTE
R MILARY MIT, AND WE HE
KEPT OUROMISES
TH HOUSES THE ST
PRODUCVE WE VE HADN AT
LEAST A GENETION.
TODAT WHAVE PSED 1,175
BIS, MORE AN HAL O THEM
TH BIPARTISAN SUPPT.
AND BECAU IT Y DY AS
SPKER, NR 75 OFHOSE
BILLARE STIL SCK I TE
UNITEDTATES NATE.
BUT E RESTFHEM MAD IT
INTOLAWND THAS AN ENOOUS
ACEVEMEN
NO WE HA TAKEN ON SOMEF
E BGEST CHAENGES OF O
ME ANDE HAVE ME A GREAT
DASTING DIFFENCE IN TH
TRECTORYF THIS COUNTR
WE BEGAN A HIORIC BLDING O
OUR MITARY A INTNATION
DEFEE.
WEENTEDEW TOUANCTIO
SOME OFUR BIGST FOES.
WUSHERE IN A NEW CEER
SYEM.
RECORD REGULORY REFO.
LONG UGHT EXPSIONF
DOSTIC ERGY PRUCTIONO BE
FOLLOW BY AMICA'SEW ENEY
DOMINAE.
STE THE TDEF OPID
ADCTION,HE MOSIGNIFINT
EFFORTGAINSTINGLERUG
CRIS IN CONESSIONHIORY.
CRIMINALUSTICEFORM TO GE
MOREEOPLE CHAE AT
REDEMPON,AKING ITS WAY
ROUGH.
WE'RDOING IS ALLHE WAY UP
TO THED.
A LDMARK CRKDOWNN HUMN
TRAFCKING AT IS READY
YIELNG RESTS ANDAVING
LIVE
A VA WIT REAL COUNTALITY.
ANDNALLY,ETTERARE F OUR
TERANS
AND AFR YES OF DOUBT, YRS
OF THE CYNSAYINGHATT
COULNOT BE DONE, WE ACEVED
RST MAJOR OVERAFUR TAX
CODE I 31 YES.
APPLAU ]
THK AUT.
I KNOW HAVE A LOT.
KEVIN'THOUGHABOUT IS A
T.
WE WTROM THE WORST TAX DE
IN THENDUSTRLIZED RLD TO
ONE OFHE MOSCOMPETIVE.
IT'S SETHING'VE WRKED O
LITERAY MY EIRE ADT LIFE
AND IT WIL HLP IMPROHE
LIS OF PEOE FOR AONG TI
COME.
IT'S ONE O THOE ESIVE
GENETIONALREFOS.
'S WHY W DO THIS
CERTNLY, O CONGRS CANN
LVE ALTHAT AS .
NO EVE OUOME HAS BEE
PERFT.
T THAT OUR GEATYSTEM AT
RK.
AND I'DARN PUD O WTE
VE ACHVED TOTHER TOAKE
THIS A STROERND A ME
PROSPEUS UNTRY.
MY MTOR JACK KEMP HNCE
SA TT THE CERAL TASK OF
ANPOLITIL PARTYSO OFF
PELE SUPERIO IASF
GOVERNNT.
SEE I AS ENORE TH
TASKR AN OBLITION.
I SEIT AS AABORF LOV
YE YOU CAN MA ACAREER OUT
OFCRITICM.
UAN DEAL FM THAT CK ALL
DAY LONG.
NY PEOPL .
I N'T BEGRGE THTHT.
SEEMS KE AN ASY LING.
BUT WL-DONE - I THIS
BUNESS, U CATC SLIS AND
ARROWS
ITS A PRICETHAT I HAVE BEEN
HAPPTO PY BECAUOTHINGS
AS FULLLINGS PSUING N
EA THAWILL TRY MAK
FFEREN INPEOPLE LIV AND
EING ITHROUGFROM SRT TO
FISH.
TO , THAT IS T ULTATE
PRING GROD OF POTICS.
IT ITHE GRT MANISTATIO O
IS EXPERENT IN
SELF-GOVERENT.
E MORE YOUET IN IT, WN
U CHOO T TRU ENGAGE IN
E PROCS RHER TH MEREL
ENRE IT ME YOUCOME TO
SEE THAT EV OU MOST COMPL
OBLEMS ARE LVABLE
>> LEA HERCONVCED TH
WE FACNO CHALLGE THAAN'T
BE SOLVE BY ARESSINAD-ON
THEROBLEM OFHEDAY.
E STAT OFPOLICS,THOU,
IS ATHER QUEION.
ANDANKLYTHAT'S ONE DON'T
HA AN AWER OR.
YOU KNOW,E HAV GOOD NSE
OF WT OUR LITICSHOULDOOK
LIKEA GREAT CSHF IDEAS,
CIL SCOURS THROUHICH WE
DEBATEND RESVE OUR
DIERENCE A SYSM OF
GOVERNNT.
OUR SYEM DOE'T JUSALLOW
FOR AT.
OUR SYEM DEPDS ON AT.
ONE SI MAY W, ONESIDE MAY
LO.
DUST RSELVEOFND THEN
WE STA EW, KNONG AT EH
ONFOUGHTN PSUITF TEIR
HOST IDEALS
BUTODAY,OOOFTE GUINE
DIGREEME QUICK GES W
TO IENSE DISTRU.
WE SPEN FAR MREIME TRYIN TO
NVICT E ANOTR THAWEO
TRNG TO DEVEL OURWN
COICTION
>>HANKSO MU FOR WCHING
"NEWS NO ONOX 10TRA.
WILL CONTIE TO LTEN TO
PA RYAN EN WE RETURN.
>> AS I LK EAD TO T
FUTURETHIS MH I NOW.
OUR COMEX PROEMS AR
SOLUTE SOLVLE.
THERE E THREEIG ONESI THIN
WEAN TACKL IN THE YEARS AHEAD
AS A CNTRY.
ERE AREHALLENS THAT HAV
VEXED IS COURY FR MAN
ARS.
AS ILEAV,  ROGNIZE SO MUCH
MOREORK NEDSO BE ONE.
AND IFE GET THEM RIGHT, WE CAN
BE CERTA THA THI WILBE
ANOTHER EAT CENTU FOR OUR
UNTRY.
I THINWE'VE ADE RL PROGRS
RE IN A RELATELY SHT TIM
FOUREARS O,HENOUR NATIO
RKED THE0th ANNIVSARY I
THE R ONVERTY,E EXSED
SOMERETTYARD UTHS FOR LL
TH BILLISSPENT,LL THE
BUREAUACIES D PROGRAMS
CREAD, WE RELY MED THE
NELE.
NEW OPRTUNITS, WHI ARE
PARTF TAXREFORM WILL BRI
MO INVESTNT INTTHE
STRESS COMMUTIES.
NEW WOFORCEREFORMS, JOB
TRAINI PRRAMS,ASE
MANAMENT APPROH THOSARE
THINGSHAT WLELPMORE
PELE MOVE OM WELRE TO
WORK
WEE GOT LONG W TO GO BUT
TH IS WAT I FIND TO  SO
DYNAMIABOUT FREENTERPSE.
IT INOT JT ABOUCREATI
BS.
IT'SBOUT RTORINGHE MEANG
A JOBTHEEANING OF RK.
IT'S NOTUST ABT GETTG
OPLE OFFF THE DELINE
IT'S ABO HELPING GET PEOP ON
E PATHFFE.
I FIRMLELIEVE W'RE T
REQUED NOTUST AREAT
UNDEAKING,UT A GREAT
RETHINNG OF W WE HP THE
MOST VULRABLE ONG US
SOLUONS A TAILODND
TARGETFOR PEOP'S EDS.
THIS BATTLILL B WON EYTO
EYE, SOULO SOUL.
B, THA YOU FORHOWINGE
AT.
'VE HAGREAT VOCATEFOR
WELFARREFORMN OURPART
KE MY IEND T SCT.
BUT CLLENG MYPART HERE,
DO NOTLET THIS ISS DFT FROM
UR NSCIOUESS.
EVERY FE MTERS A ERY
PEON SERVES AHANCEO
SUCCEED.
LET  KEEP ADVANNGDEAS TO
ALLOPEOPLE TO LE VES OF
SELFETERMITION.
THISS GREAWORK A WE CA
ACEVE THIS.
SEND, I BELVE THA WE CABE
E GERATIOTHAT SES OUR
TITLEMT PROGRA.
FRKLY, WE ND T.
D I ACKNOEDGE PLAIN THAT
MYMBITIO FOR ETITLEMT
FORMS VE OUACED TE
LITIL REITY, A I
CONSID THIS R GREEST
UNNISHEDUSINES
WE ALL KWHA NEEDS TBE
DONE.
STRONGCONOMIGROWTH WHICHE
VE.
AND EITLEME RERM T
ADESS THLONG-TM DVERSF
OUR DET.
OU REVEN ISBOUTO RURN
TO ITS 50-YEA AVAGE.
WHAT CTINUESO PLAG US  A
NDATOR SPENNGYSTEM THAT
IS DEEPL OUTFALAN AND
SUSTAIBLE.
THIS W THE CASE WHEN I CA
HE 25EARS GO,ND I IS THE
SE TODAY.
TOOONG AGO, FE WER
WILLG TOECOGNI THE SCO
OF THI OBLEM,ET ANE
ENGAGEN SOTIONS.
OUR GORNMENTASN'T EVEN
INCLIN TO EMINE T
LONGERM FISL PICTUR
DN'T EN WO THATWAY.
WE H TO GOBOUT CNGING E
DEBATE BORE WE COULD BEN TO
EVENRY ANDHANGEPELE'S
MIND
M PRD THATVERY YR I S
BUDG CHAIRN, WE PASEDN
THHOUSE OAD MAP TO
LANCINTHE BDG AND PAYIN
OFOUR DE.
ANTHAT TOM PRICE DD THAME
ASLL.
IN TISCONGRE, WE CAM WHIN
ON VOTOF REAL HEALTARE
TITLEMT FORM.
THINKBOUT THAT
IT MAINSHE PNCIPALRIVER
OF EITLEME SPDING.
SO WE VE COME AONG WAY A
WE ARELOSER TN PEOE
ALIZE,ND ULMATELYOLVING
TH PROBL WILLEQUIRE
GRTER DREE O POLITICALILL
TH EXIS TOD AND IEGR
THAT.
BUT EN THE TEOMESTO DO
TH, ANDT WILL CAUSE I
ST, TH PH AHD WILLE
BASED  THEFRAMEWK THA WE
HAVE LD OUT TO SVE THI
PRLEM.
WE CAN G THE.
WE HE TO FURROKEN
IMMIATION SYST.
GHT NO WARE AGAI LKED
IN ATHER SHT-TERM BATTL
OV ONE AECT O TH ISSU
D NO MATR WHAT TUTCOME
, IN TOMING YS, TE
RGER PBLEMILL MAIN.
THEYSTEMILL B EEDF
SEOUS RERM AND N LESS THA
OUFULL PENTIALS A NAON
HERE I AT STKE.
BUTHE RIGH MIX OPOLICY
S
SOLUTIS IS TRE.
BORDERECURITFOR STARRS,
BUA ALSO A MERNIZAON OF
OUR SA SYSM, SO THAT IT
MAKESENSE R OUR ONOMY D
OPLE.
SO TT ANYONE O WANTTO PLA
BYHE RUL, WORK HD, ANDE
A PT OF O AMERIN BRIC,
CANONTRIBE.
IN OER TO X THESYST, YOU
HA TO SETHE SYSTE
NEXT EAR, THE SUPREME COURT
WI MAKE  RULG AND BTH
PARTS CAN D SHOD GO BACK
TO T TABLE
GETTG THI RIGHT I AN
ONOMICND MOR IMPERAVE.
AND IT WOULO A LG WAY
TOWA TING SOME O TE VOM
T OF OURSCOURS
IF WMAKE PROGRS ON VERTY,
FIOUR IIGRATI SYEM, A
CONFNT THI DT CRISISE
CAMAKE TS ANOTR GRT
CENTURFORUR COUNTRY.
I RECOGNE THAT THESE
CHALLENG ARE ON WE HAVEN'T
DE MUC PROGRS ON IN CENT
ARS.
BUT  AONFIDENT W STILLAVE
TOOLVE TH.
A GOORIEN OINERECELY
MMENTED  ME THAT AMID THE
FRENZYF POLITS TOY, HE
GOTORE FITH IN OUR SYSM OF
VERNNT THEVER BEORE.
E P , INUR SYSM,
REALLYAD IDEAS, THEY G
KILL.
ANGOODIDS, TY JUS TE
TI.
OURROBLS ARE SOLVAE IF OUR
POLICS WIL ALLOW IT.
KNOW .
HAVE SN IT.
IN A CONFINT AMERI, WE D'T
SHRUOURHOULDE OR PS THE
BUCK. E ROLL U OUR SEVES
AND T OITH OWORK.
A CONFINT AMECA LEAVE THE
WOD, TOO
NOWITH BSTER, T WITH
STEA,RINCLEDACTION.
REMEER, HISTY REAY DOE
HAVE A WAY OF REPTINGITSE.
DEMOCTICAPITALTODEL
AGN FACES GENATION
DEFINI MENT ATEST.
MUCHFUR Y-TO-D ATTTION
IS FOCUS ONHREATSROM
ILLIBEL REGES AND THRTS
FR RADIC LAMISM
I STRONY URGEEADERSNOTH
PAIES TO DEVO MORE ME AND
ENGY TO T DIRT CHAENGE
THATHINA POSO T WES
CHA UNABHEDLY OFFS AN
TERNATE IN TORM OF AN
AUORITARNODWITH A
NEER O21st CTURY
PITALISM
AND THE NSE I GET FM WN I
VE BEETRAVELG OVERASS
EAKERS TH OUR ALLS
NDER WTHER WRE REAY
STL IN T GAM HE OR NOT.
EN WE SHOW THATUR W O
DOIN THING SLLAS ICE, WE
CAN  THE MOST GOD FOR T
MOST